---
type: docs
title: "Workflow management operations with DaprWorkflowClient"
linkTitle: "Workflow management operations"
weight: 2000
description: Learn how to use the `DaprWorkflowClient` to manage workflows
---

## Workflow management operations with `DaprWorkflowClient`

The `DaprWorkflowClient` class provides methods to manage workflow instances. Below are the operations you can perform using the `DaprWorkflowClient`.

### Schedule a new workflow instance

To start a new workflow instance, use the `ScheduleNewWorkflowAsync` method. This method requires the workflow type name and an input required by the workflow. The workflow `instancedId` is an optional argument; if not provided, a new GUID is generated by the `DaprWorkflowClient`. The final optional argument is a `startTime` of type `DateTimeOffset` which can be used to define when the workflow instance should start. The method returns the `instanceId` of the scheduled workflow which is used for other workflow management operations.

```csharp
var instanceId = $"order-workflow-{Guid.NewGuid().ToString()[..8]}";
var input = new Order("Paperclips", 1000, 9.95);
await daprWorkflowClient.ScheduleNewWorkflowAsync(
  nameof(OrderProcessingWorkflow),
  instanceId,
  input);
```

### Retrieve the status of a workflow instance

To get the current status of a workflow instance, use the `GetWorkflowStateAsync` method. This method requires the instance ID of the workflow and returns a `WorkflowStatus` object containing details about the workflow's current state.

```csharp
var workflowStatus = await daprWorkflowClient.GetWorkflowStateAsync(instanceId);
```

### Raise an event to a running workflow instance

To send an event to a running workflow instance that is waiting for an external event, use the `RaiseEventAsync` method. This method requires the instance ID of the workflow, the name of the event, and optionally the event payload.

```csharp
await daprWorkflowClient.RaiseEventAsync(instanceId, "Approval", true);
```

### Suspend a running workflow instance

A running workflow instance can be paused using the `SuspendWorkflowAsync` method. This method requires the instance ID of the workflow. You can optionally provide a reason for suspending the workflow.

```csharp
await daprWorkflowClient.SuspendWorkflowAsync(instanceId);
```

### Resume a suspended workflow instance

A suspended workflow instance can be resumed using the `ResumeWorkflowAsync` method. This method requires the instance ID of the workflow. You can optionally provide a reason for resuming the workflow.

```csharp
await daprWorkflowClient.ResumeWorkflowAsync(instanceId);
```

### Terminate a workflow instance

To terminate a workflow instance, use the `TerminateWorkflowAsync` method. This method requires the instance ID of the workflow. You can optionally provide an `output` argument of type `string`. Terminating a workflow instance will also terminal all child workflow instances but it has no impact on in-flight activity executions.

```csharp
await daprWorkflowClient.TerminateWorkflowAsync(instanceId);
```

### Purge a workflow instance

To remove the workflow instance history from the Dapr Workflow state store, use the `PurgeWorkflowAsync` method. This method requires the instance ID of the workflow. Only completed, failed, or terminated workflow instances can be purged.

```csharp
await daprWorkflowClient.PurgeWorkflowAsync(instanceId);
```

## Next steps

- [Learn how to author workflows and activities]({{% ref howto-author-workflow.md %}}) 
- [Try the Dapr Workflow quickstart]({{% ref workflow-quickstart.md %}})
